The simple exponential smoothing method
was expanded to include forecasting data
with a trend.
This new method is called double
exponential smoothing, or
Holt's linear trend method.
The method builds off of simple
exponential smoothing by including
not only the level, but
also the trend in its calculation.
It does this by combining
two smoothing calculations.
One for the Level, and
one for the Trend.
The Trend in this method is then always
applied in a linear or additive fashion.
By adding this component to this
simple exponential Smoothing Method,
our forecast will no longer be flat,
but will be able to trend upward or
downward.
Hence, the forecasts
are a linear function.
Holtz linear method is a great model
to apply to any non seasonal data set.